<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Word index snippets</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h2>{$language-name} Word Index</h2>
        <div>The present index provides a listing of every {$language-name} version currently in the
                <em>Guide to Evagrius Ponticus</em> (including <em>dubia et spuria</em>). </div>
        <div class="eng">Because of copyright restrictions, only a small portion of Evagrius's works
            are available as English translations in the <em>GEP</em>. As a result, English word
            index entries should not be taken as comprehensive. For more systematic study, use the
                <a href="../grc/index.html">Greek index</a>.</div>
        <div class="grc">The <em>GEP</em> contains at least one Greek version per work, for works
            that are still extant in Greek. But many of Evagrius's works do not survive in Greek, so
            word index entries should not be taken as being comprehensive. Frankenberg's Greek
            retroversions of Syriac translations have not been included, but I expect to collate his
            versions in a future edition of the <em>GEP</em>. Indexes of Syriac, Latin, and other
            ancient languages are forthcoming.</div>
        <div>The primary goal of this index is not statistical (i.e., to count the number of
            instances of a given word), but to help readers discover passages of interest, and
            compare them to each other, hence the presentation as a keyword in context (KWIC) index.
            Readers have the opportunity not only to look up specific terms, but to quickly see the
            immediate context for each occurrence, and to compare passages that have the same
            word.</div>
        <div class="eng">Word forms are grouped by lemmas, on the basis of Merriam-Webster
            Collegiate Dictionary, 11th edition. Thus, "ate" is listed under "eat," but "close" may
            be appear in two different entries, depending on whether it is an adjective or verb.
            Similarly, "desire" is disambiguated as to whether it is used as a noun or verb. Most
            past participles are grouped with their base verb form, unless the word is common enough
            to warrant its own entry as an adjective. This decision may be seem subjective. The word
            "depressed" is an adjective with its own dictionary entry but "created" is not. Words
            have been lemmatized through both automated and manual processes. </div>
        <div class="grc">Word forms are grouped by lemmas found in Liddel-Scott-Jones. Thus, "ᾠήθη"
            is listed under "οἴομαι." Words have been lemmatized through both automated and manual
            processes. Preliminary lemmatization results have benefitted tremendously from the
            Perseus Project's <a href="https://wiki.digitalclassicist.org/Morpheus">Morpheus
                service</a>.</div>
        <div>Within each lemma entry, passages are grouped by works, sorted by CPG number, and
            subgrouped by canonical reference. Within this subgroup, the same word might be found in
            multiple versions. If the local wording of those multiple versions are identical
            (ignoring punctuation and capitalization), only one entry is provided. But if there are
            even slight variations in the orthography or word order, or in the reference system,
            they are broken into individual entries, with variants rendered in a smaller typeface.
            Subordination of one version to another is based on automated processes, and may not
            reflect the actual relative importance of the versions.</div>
        <div>Typographical errors or orthographical variations are retained unchanged. Generally
            speaking, most articles, conjunctions, particles, prepositions, and other common words
            have been dropped (see the full <a href="stopwords.html">stopword list</a>). </div>
        <div>The above is a declaration of intent. Close inspection will likely turn up errors or
            inconsistencies. Corrections to the editor are greatly appreciated.</div>
    </body>
</html>
